h1. Documentation for the Hazelcast module

bq. This module is a @dropin@ replacement for EhCacheImpl or MemcachedImpl from Play. 
It allow your application to have a clustered cache when you can't install a memcached server on your platform.
It's also a great free open source *In-Memory Data Grid*

See "Hazelcast Documentation":http://www.hazelcast.com/documentation.jsp for more details.

h2. Installing Hazelcast Module

p. To install Hazelcast Plugin module, you do like every other Play Modules:

bc. play install hazelcast[-version]

h2. Using Hazelcast Module in your application (Dependency management)

h3. There is two way to use the module


* The Play 1.x way (*in application.conf*)

bc. module.hazelcast=${play.path}/modules/hazelcast-[version]

* The Play 1.2.x way (*in dependencies.yml*)

bc.. require:
	- play -> hazelcast [version]

h2. Using standard Play! Framework Cache Mechanisms

p. All the standard Play annotations or methods work seamlessly with *Hazelcast* instead of *EhCache* or *Memcached*.

* @CacheFor("1h")@
* @Cache.xxx()@
* Etc...

bq. See "Play Framework Cache Documentation":/@documentation/cache for @CacheFor("1h")@ and provided Play! @Cache.xxx()@ usage.


h2. Using features from Hazelcast

h3. Using @Inject to inject an instance of *Hazelcast* in your controller

bc(Java). @Inject private static HazelcastInstance hazel;

h3. Injecting the default ExecutorService

bc(Java). @Inject private static ExecutorService executor;

h3. Using @Named to inject a named resource 

bc(Java). @Named("MyQueue") private static Queue myQueue;


h2. Hazelcast clustered services

* Distributed Queues (Entries are consumed by one and only one JVM)
* Distributed Topics (Entries are consumed by all JVM)
* Distributed Events
* Distributed AtomicNumber provider
* Distributed ExecutorService
* Distributed ID Generator (_ID are UNIQUE in all cluster nodes_)
* Distributed List (to share a list in the cluster between many JVM)
* Distributed Lock (_to apply a lock on an object and share between JVM_)
* Distributed Set
* Distributed Map/MultiMap (_Maps are shared between JMV, MultiMap allow for multiple values for the same key_)
* Distributed Transaction (_affect transactions on clustered objects, not database!_)

h3. Configuration file *hazelcast.xml*

You can modify *hazelcast.xml* to your need to create more Queues or Map and modify the default ExecutorService parameters. Just copy the hazelcast.xml file from the module _conf_ directory to your application _conf_ directory. This is also the file that allow you to change from multicast to TCPIP static cluster definition.

h3. Hazelcast Object type that can be retreived via @@Named@ annotation

* Queue
* Topic
* AtomicNumber
* ExecutorService
* Set
* Map
* MultiMap
* IdGenerator

h3. Hazelcast Object type that can by retreived via @@Inject@ annotation

* Transaction
* ExecutorService
* PartitionService
* Event

h3. Method directly accessible on @HazelcastPlugin@ class

* @HazelcastPlugin.getTransaction()@ [1]
* @HazelcastPlugin.getLock(Object o)@ [2]
* @HazelcastPlugin.getHazel()@ [3]

fn1. Use this to get a Transaction object then you can @begin()@ or @commit()@ or @rollback()@ operations on cluster.

fn2. Use this to lock an object across the cluster.

fn3. Use this if you absolutly _NEED_ to directly get the Default Hazelcast instance.

h2. Roadmap

p. I'd like to see some basic Play! features use Hazel capabilities:

* Play! Jobs could use Hazelcast ExecutorService automaticaly
* Integrating Hazelcast with my other upcoming module "Camel":http://myuri.me/3VAE for "EIP":http://myuri.me/3Vh8
* Etc...
